First off I wanna give a huge shoutout to Squid for making this mod possible,
he's been amazing at making my crazy ideas come together, and at helping me
expand on my ideas. The idea of this mod all started around the idea of making
aztec have a more balanced roster and kind of just snowballed from there. We
haven't been afraid to radically overhaul civs that we've felt are poorly
designed or one dimensional, rather than just tweak some unit costs or hp by 5
or whatever.  A note on standardising: several ranged infantry units have  been
nerfed/buffed to be more in line with standard euro skirms, with Yumi being
especially notable. The reason for this is that skirms/skirm type units tend
to define midgame skirmishes and big fights, and when one player has a
skirmisher type that just radically outclasses the other, regardless of
investment into upgrades, the game becomes extremely skewed in one players
favour. While making civs MORE unique has been our goal, a few units have been
made more standard in order to keep this particular issue in check.

A few civ specific notese:

Otto. Looking at otto it was clear immediately that the civ lacks options, and
is always on a clock. Every single other civ outscales them economically within
just minutes, and thus, all ottoman builds are focused on winning as soon as
possible, with all in builds and minimal economic investment. The major issues
that were focused on were, firstly, free villagers is terrible design. The rate
you get these vills constantly puts you behind, while also making for far too
quick of an ageup. The other issue is just a general lack of unit diversity.
You have to build an entire new building to train a unit type. Barracks just
has jans, stable just has huss, and foundry has abus (technically grens too but
RE grens are so awful in comparison to abus). To address this we've removed the
free vills in favour of trained vills, and added two new units: a unique bow
unit and a unique pike unit. As a secondary bonus, Fencing School has been
added to their HC, as they now have enough infantry for this card to be
relevant.

To compensate, and to make the civ more true to its history, its new bonus is
now “Masters of Trade” where they get more resources from crates,
stagecoach tps, and have a better market exchange rate. (Note that the card
“TEAM Silk Road” has been changed to a team trickle” as its tech has
now become the inherent civ bonus).

An infinite Spahi card has been added as well.

Abus have been changed to deal “ranged” damage instead of “siege”
damage. This might sound controversial, a massive nerf, or downright destroying
the unit. It's not. Abus have SO MANY penalty multipliers in order to negate the
siege damage, that in many instances they perform Identically to how they do
now. Doing siege damage to cav, but with half damage is more or less the same
as a regular skirm doing 0.75x then cut by the cav's ranged resist as well. By
dealing ranged damage we were able to remove a vast majority of the penalties,
making them behave more predictably and more consistently. The big buff we
added, to justify the price, was to give them a small aoe attack instead. The
unit that abus are primarily made to counter is Heavy infantry. With extremely
odd exception of Yamabushi, all have melee armour, thus abus are not being
nerfed in any way against the units they are intended to counter. In fact, with
the splash damage, they may actually be a bit better. 

Additionally the civ now features archers more heavily (the ottoman empire
fielded archers well into the 19th century), with several techs to boost them
in battle. Religion features lightly, with the mosque(s) trickling xp, as a nod
to the empire's religious roots. The card “sublime port” is an exchange
card that otto has always had access to, but now can be used to ensure a large
wood reserve for archers, just like the brits.

The net result is that they now age up at a much more reasonable time, scale on
a much more normal level, have strong options with trade routes and stronger
crate shipments, and with the ability to create more balanced compositions in
all ages. 




Japan was especially tricky to work with. The problems we identified were
twofold: Japan can sit in base until they have a critical mass of yumis and a
few ashi and basically just z-move and win every time the game goes longer than
about 11 or 12 minutes. To address this we fixed a few things. Firstly, yumi
are now age 3, shadowtech, and have much more similar damage to standard
skirms. The rest of the military has been reworked, and is more coin heavy, to
force japan to contest and hold coin mines on the map earlier. Without a
wood/food unit age 2 they cannot just camp on berries for ages.  To synergize
with these changes, we reworked the roster to be more historically accurate and
requiring more unit micro. Ashi are now essentially just gunpowder shinobi, a
soft counter to infantry. The japanese ashigaru never actually fought with
bayonets and thus the unit felt out of place. Samurai are now just the standard
unit form of Wokou Ronin, a soft counter to cavalry with a lot of hp and
armour, high base damage but no multis. We removed the AOE as well. They're
quite a bit cheaper now too. This soft-counter version of a bow-pike combo
takes much more effort to micro rather than z-moving a big drag box of
ashi-yumi and just beating essentially most things.  The other big change was
to more closely mirror the other 2 tad civs on the following: an age 2 ranged
cav that has a multiplier related card in colo, and having an anti-infantry
siege unit in the castle age 2. Shinobi are now in the castle, and are simply a
longer ranged grenadier, but with a smaller splash area. Yabusame are now
available age 2, if you prefer not to use samurai.  The result is that Japan
now has to move out onto the map earlier, and has to have a much better use of
micro in big fights in order to prevail. They still boom powerfully, scale hard
into midgame, but now require much more map control to do it.


A few notes on aztec: Azzy has, in total, 4 units exclusively dedicated to
countering cavalry, one ranged infantry, and one kind of mediocre cavalry unit.
The whole roster is reworked now so that JPK are now melee skirms, Skull
knights are now coyote type units, but with splash damage, and ERKs have been
toned down to reduce dependence on erk exclusive compositions.  You might say,
hey hold up, aren't jpk gonna be like Urumi now? In a word, No. They do not have
splash damage, are still quite slow, and very vulnerable to cavalry now. They
don't take bonus damage from skirms, but are quite vulnerable at a distance.
Additionally, they're still competing with the cost effective mace, though of
course they do shadowtech to III. Skull knights are now truly berserker units,
able to clean up swaths of unprotected infantry and artillery, but are
extremely vulnerable to dragoons and heavy infantry. Arrow knights got a small
bump up in HP, so that they can take a direct hit from a single falconet,
allowing them to actually do their job.  Result? A much more well rounded
roster with more variety and unit variation.
